# TfsCmdlets Release Notes

## Version 2.0.0-beta.11 (_21/Jan/2020_)

### Improvements

#### New cmdlets: `Enter-TfsShell`, `Exit-TfsShell`, `Get-TfsVersion`, `Invoke-TfsRestApi`

The new `Enter-TfsShell` and `Exit-TfsShell` cmdlets streamline the invocation of the "Azure DevOps Shell" mode. When invoked, shows a banner with the module version and activates the custom console prompt. The custom prompt displays the currently connected Azure DevOps org/server.

`Invoke-TfsRestApi` can be used to streamline calls to the Azure DevOps REST API for scenarios/APIs not yet covered by TfsCmdlets.

Lastly, `Get-TfsVersion` returns version information on a given team project collection / organization. Currently, only Azure DevOps Services organizations are supported. Support for TFS and Azure DevOps Server will be added in a future release.

#### Convert work item query-related cmdlets (`*-TfsWorkItemQuery`, `*-TfsWorkItemQueryFolder`) to REST API

In the process, they've been generalized and converted to aliases to their new "generic" counterparts (`*-TfsWorkItemQueryItem`), much like the Area/Iteration cmdlets.

#### Convert PowerShell Format/Types XML files (*.Format.ps1xml, *.Types.ps1xml) to YAML

Now both **TfsCmdlets.Types.ps1xml** and **TfsCmdlets.Format.ps1xml** files are generated during build time from YAML files with [ps1xmlgen](https://github.com/igoravl/ps1xmlgen). That offers a much better experience to edit/mantain PowerShell's type/format XML files.

#### Argument completers

This improvement is way overdue, but now we have the first set of argument completers. Any cmdlets with the arguments `-Server`, `-Collection` and `-Project` can be "Tab-completed".

#### New aliases for Connect-* cmdlets

Now, to connect to a Azure DevOps (or TFS) collection/organization/project/team you can use optionally use one of the aliases below:

* Connect-TfsConfigurationServer
  * ctfssvr
* Connect-TfsTeamProjectCollection
  * Connect-AzdoOrganization
  * Connect-TfsOrganization
  * ctfs
* Connect-TfsTeamProject
  * ctfstp
* Connect-TfsTeam
  * ctfsteam

### Bug fixes

* Fix iteration processing in Set-TfsTeam ([72f0fc0](https://github.com/igoravl/TfsCmdlets/pull/98/commits/72f0fc0cdcba7d41c8341efd0b0304303058907e)), ([e15d1ee](https://github.com/igoravl/TfsCmdlets/pull/98/commits/e15d1ee0bff2e8a5bd20b26e11d1b41413eb79b9))
* Fix build when in Release configuration ([6a795ce](https://github.com/igoravl/TfsCmdlets/pull/98/commits/6a795ce49331e37fbd7319f26c1e452d0135a7f6))
* Fix classification node (area/iteration) retrieval for old APIs ([0df3616](https://github.com/igoravl/TfsCmdlets/pull/98/commits/0df3616868a15054125261555ecefed1d830d599))
* Fix TFS Client Library version retrieval ([a9ac849](https://github.com/igoravl/TfsCmdlets/pull/98/commits/a9ac849643f5738e9616ae5c01a12c93c4d1345c))
* Fix Azure DevOps Shell command prompt
* Fix Disconnect-* issues

### Known issues

* Incremental build is currently disabled in the default Visual Studio Code Build task, as it's a bit inconsistent.
